# Abstract

This project focuses on the development of a digital twin utilizing machine learning models for event detection in aquaponic systems, with the use of limited of training data. Specifically, a Decision Tree Classifier, a Gradient Boosting Classifier, and a k-Nearest Neighbor Classifier have been implemented to address the challenge of working with a small dataset. To enhance the accuracy of the models, feature extraction techniques have been employed. The successful fine-tuning of these models demonstrates the potential of machine learning in addressing the specific challenges posed by limited datasets. The integration of these models with Internet of Things (IoT) technologies has the potential to streamline the monitoring process, reducing the complexity of managing these systems and the number of sensors required. This approach may also contribute to reducing stress for certain fish species that prefer darker environments, as it may minimize the need for human intervention, such as opening the tank lid for inspection. This work contributes to the growing body of research on the application of digital twins, machine learning and IoT in aquaponics, offering a promising path towards more sustainable and efficient food production systems. The main advantage of using sensors and digital twins is that they can show the status of the system in real time, supporting decision-making for a more efficient system and higher yields.


# Why Aquaponic and digital Twin

With an estimated world population of 9.8&nbsp;billion in 2050, global food demand is expected to increase by 50-80&nbsp;%. This sharp increase in food demand, resource, land and water scarcity, and ever-increasing land consumption for human settlements and renewable energy puts enormous pressure on agriculture. Agriculture is one of the world's largest consumers of freshwater, accounting for 70-80&nbsp;% of freshwater use. In addition, climate change is making more and more soils and even whole regions infertile, droughts are causing crops failures, and the use of more and more pesticides and fertilizers is severely impacting the earth's biodiversity. Especially considering that about 46&nbsp;% of the habitat land mass is already used as farmland, 38&nbsp;% is forest, and 14&nbsp;% is shrubland. The latter two play a tremendously important role in the preservation of the Earth's biodiversity. The last 2&nbsp;% are freshwater and urban areas.

However, the world's increasing urbanization is also reducing the sustainability of food production. Food for the world's largest cities usually has to be imported from distant regions, further increasing the climate impact of food. In addition, countries such as Singapore are becoming increasingly dependent on neighboring countries as they can only produce 10&nbsp;% of their own food. 

Aquaponics offers a viable and sustainable solution for the addressed problems. This innovative food production system combines the principles of aquaculture (fish farming) and hydroponics (growing plants without soil) to create a symbiotic environment where food can be produced sustainably. It promises to reduce water consumption by 90-95&nbsp;% compared to conventional agriculture, as water circulates only between the subsystems and does not seep into the soil or gets tossed away. In addition, aquaponics is not dependent on fertile soil, which means it can be used in large cities or arid regions. 

In addition to its great potential, aquaponics as an emerging technology faces several challenges, such as scalability, cost-effectiveness, and technical complexity. The high initial investment, the constant need for electricity, and the high complexity of creating a balanced system are significant hurdles of bringing aquaponics to a commercial level. However, if these hurdles can be overcome, aquaponics has the potential to lead human food production into a more sustainable future.

Digital twins, a digital representation of natural physical systems, and machine learning can help overcome these hurdles. Using digital twins to display the current status accurately, predict future states, and try to prevent failures could help reduce the complexity of systems and help keep systems in balance. By utilizing advanced technologies in aquaponics, it becomes possible to reduce operational costs and enhance yields, leading to a significant increase in profitability. With proper implementation of these cutting-edge tools, aquaponic systems can be optimized for maximum efficiency and productivity. This not only benefits the environment but also allows for higher quality and more sustainable food production.

Integrating digital twins into aquaponics can play a critical role in ensuring food security in the future. Only through change and technological advancement can sustainable and future-proof food production be achieved, even as demand skyrockets.
